Dhulikhel is the administrative center of Kavrepalanchowk District, Nepal. At the time of the 2011 Nepal census, it had a populace of 16,263 human beings in 3,291 families. Dhulikhel is located 30 kilometers to the east of Kathmandu at the foothills of the Panchkhal basin and it is an old Newari town. It’s far accessed through the Arniko highway that joins Kathmandu with the Tibetan border metropolis of Kodari and takes approximately 1 hour to power from Kathmandu Two most important toll road B.P. motorway and Arniko dual carriageway passes through Dhulikhel. Dhulikhel is one of the best places in Nepal to visit in the both winter and summer season.

Yet another beautiful place in Nepal that is totally worth a visit is Dhulikhel. The administrative center of a popular district, kavrepalanchowk district, Dhulikhel has the population of almost 16000 people and has around 3000 households. As Dhulikhel is near to Kathmandu, getting it is not difficult.

Dhulikhel is a popular destination to observe the high Himalayas of Nepal. From the ridge, stunning panoramic view of gigantic peaks unfolds from Langtang to the east through dorejelakpa and Gauri Shankar peak in the east of Nepal. Apart from that, green inviting hills and beautifully carved terraces are sure to attract thousands of visitor’s mind and soul.

While natural beauties captivate everyone’s mind, going through the old city of Dhulikhel gives the visitors the insight into the lifestyle of people living there. The narrow streets that are typical of a medieval city are inhabited for at least five centuries and provides in-depth detail about the people, their culture, religion, and way of living.

Dhulikhel is also a spot where one can find numerous temples that depict traditional Newari craftsmanship. The old city of Dhulikhel has a number of old Hindu shrines and Buddhist stupas. The Narayan Temple with a yellow metal roof is a temple dedicated to Lord Krishna and alongside this is Harisiddhi Temple. Further up the hill, Bhagwati Temple, a pagoda styled Temple is established that is fully dedicated to Bhagwati Goddess.

This part of Nepal is mostly inhabited by Newari People. Apart from that, Bhramin, Chhetri, Dalit and Tamang people also reside in unity. The attire and customs of the people living in this area are different and this visit is ideal for observing the diversity among the different types of people and their customs.

