When people think of seeing Mount Everest in Nepal they often have visions of being kitted out in metal crampons, thick sub-zero mountaineering coats, goggles on an ice encrusted face after weeks of trekking. Nepal can offer this scenario, but there are far easier ways to see, experience and enjoy Mount Everest!

For those on a tight time-frame taking a mountain flight from Kathmandu is by far the easiest and quickest way to see Everest. 
It's as simple as arriving in Kathmandu on day one and booking a flight for the next morning. 
You'll be flying right beside the worlds highest peaks including an up close fly-by of Everest.
If you've got a couple more days, then why not consider an overnight stay in Nagarkot or Duhilikel for dramatic sunrise and sunset views overlooking the Himalayas. It's a short pre-dawn morning hike to one of the hilltops when the entire Himalayan range becomes visible.

For trekkers there are virtually unlimited options to view Mount Everest. The first brief views of the world's tallest mountain appear over the Lhotse-Nuptse ridge just after Jorsale on the forested pathway to Namche usually on the second day of trekking after a flight to Lukla.

Yet, it's from the top of Namche Bazaar that you get your first great view of Everest near the fabled Everest View Hotel (3880m). With a superb panorama of the Khumbu peaks and Everest this is shortest trek you can do to see the world's tallest mountain.

For those with twelve to sixteen days you will get the full Everest experience in Nepal by taking the fabled Everest Base Camp Trek in full. From a flight to Lukla to Namache Bazaar all the way up to Gorak Shep (High Camp) to trekking into Everest Base Camp itself along the Khumbu Glacier. Avid photographers and trekkers can add a couple of extra hours to climb Kala Pathar for a stunning, iconic panorama that takes in Lingren (6714m), Khumbutse (6636m), Changtse (7550m), Lho La (6036m), Everest (8848m), Nuptse (7863m), Ama Dablans (6856m) and Kangtega (6635m). From this point all  the mighty Himalayan peaks including the black triangular shape of the mount Everest itself create a once in a lifetime moment!